The synsets do not have a prototypical word, so each lemma must be considered when generating examples. This results in uncommon or slang words appearing with equal frequency, unless special measures are taken to remove these before generating the sentences, e.g. "en krop kan have en forlygte" ("a body can have a headlight") which comes about as a result of "forlygte" ("headlight"), a slang term for "bryst" ("breast"), being co-located in the same synset. Removing slang terms entirely and very infrequent words somewhat reduces this issue.

Another issue has to do with the ontological reality of the DanNet dataset viz-a-viz the common expectations of the human reader. For example, a human would expect parts of a body to be either human body parts or -- in the case of animal body parts -- a contextually consistent set of animal body parts. However, as an example the word "dyrefilet" (a "fillet" from an animal) is also registered as part of an animal. This does make sense in a certain context (gastronomy), but it is out of place in a more mixed context. For this reason, special care has to be taken to remove certain classes of part-whole relationships (e.g. comestible parts of non-comestible wholes), but there is no exhaustive way to ensure that every generated sentence is sound.

Furthermore, any has-a relationship must be qualified ("can ...") as we generally cannot state in the absolute that "X has Y".

Another weakness found while generating part-whole relationships has to do with specific instances of the part vs. the part as a generic word. For example, "et sprog kan have et bandeord" ("a language can have a swear word") is a perfectly acceptable sentence while "et sprog kan have pokker" ("a language can have pokker", with "pokker" being an instance of a swear word) is quite strange-sounding.
